Adilabad: 
Two bike-borne miscreants snatched a 5-tola gold chain from a woman as   she was walking in Rahulnagar Colony, Bhainsa town, in Nirmal district   on Wednesday.

Hyderabad:  
Shadnagar police arrested a  person for murdering a 40-year-old woman, with whom he was in a relationship,  and dumping the body in a secluded place.

Around Rs 5,000 in cash and some  gold ornaments were recovered from the possession of the accused.

The 15-day campaign, held from September 15 to October 2, 2024, aimed to enhance cleanliness at railway stations, trains, offices, workshops, maintenance depots, hospitals, and residential areas within the division.

These celebrations will continue until October 8.

Speaking at the party headquarters, Reddy pointed out that the agriculture department's recent drive to identify farmers who had not benefited from the loan waiver contradicted the Chief Minister's August 15 claim that all farm loans had been waived.

Reddy criticised the slow progress in gathering details of farmers who had not received loan waivers, noting that it had taken over 45 days.

He urged the government to clear all pending loans within a week and pay Rs 2 lakh to farmers whose loans exceeded that amount, without demanding payment of the remaining balance.

He also emphasised the government’s failure to fulfil other promises, including providing Rs 15,000 to tenant farmers, Rs 12,000 to agricultural workers, and a Rs 500 bonus for all crops.

Reddy highlighted the large turnout of farmers at a protest held at Indira Park and accused the Congress of evading its commitments, such as the Rs 15,000 per acre Rythu Bharosa scheme.

Chennai: 
Demanding the passing of a law to make Total Prohibition a national policy, the VCK’s women’s conference urged the Union Government to adhere to the provisions of Article 47 of the Indian Constitution that enjoin the State to raise the level of nutrition and public health by prohibiting intoxicating drinks and drugs under the Directive Principles of State Policy.

It passed a dozen resolutions with the first one seeking the invocation of Article 47 of the Constitution.

Among the other resolutions that made specific demands to the State government were the adoption of a resolution in the State Assembly urging the Union Government to declare prohibition as a national policy and to increase the allocation of funds under the 16th Finance Commission for States opting for prohibition.

Demanding a timetable from the State government for the closing down of liquor shops to ensure the implementation of total prohibition, the women’s conference said use of narcotic substances had been on the rise in Tamil Nadu with 86,000 men and 22,000 women addicted to cannabis, 1,71,000 men and 6000 women to opium and 1,92 lakh men and 10,000 women getting a high from sleeping pills, according to surveys.

It pointed out that rehabilitation centres were opened in seven government medical colleges in 2020 with the TASMAC (the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation that procures liquor from distilleries and breweries and sells them through its outlets) funding it but was discontinued in 2023.

The conference wanted an allocation of Rs 100 crore by the government to wean away people from alcohol and drugs.

Another resolution wanted alternative jobs to be provided to the employees of the TASMAC and said that it had 30,000 persons working for it as the process of closing down the liquor shops should not rob them of their livelihood.

Shoba, a homemaker from Kukatpally, said, “We started preparing our Bathukamma at 2.30 pm, and it took nearly three hours to get everything in place.

MANGALURU: 
BJP and Congress candidates will file nominations for the  Dakshina Kannada Local Authorities constituency of the Karnataka Council on  October 3.

The voting will be held on October 21, with counting on October  24
 
While the BJP declared Kishore Kumar Puttur as its candidate on  Tuesday, Congress on Wednesday evening decided to field Raju Poojary.

BJP leaders are confident of winning, claiming they have  more voters.
 
"We have about 1,800 more votes than Congress and are confident  of victory.

We are hopeful of winning this election,” KPCC working  president Manjunath Bhandary told Deccan Chronicle.
 
The seat, traditionally held by Congress, was captured by BJP’s  Kota Srinivas Poojary in the 2008 by-election after the death of Congress  leader and sitting MLC Blasius M.

Srinivas Poojary, who held the seat  until 2024, resigned after winning the Udupi-Chikmagalur Parliament seat.

The age of the deceased is suspected to be around 30 years.

A case was registered under Section 103 of the BNS, and further investigation is underway.

Hyderabad: 
Senior  congress leaders led by Bhongir MP Chamala Kiran Kumar Reddy on Wednesday  reviewed the arrangements to be made for the meeting with Musi River catchment  area farmers at Shubham convention hall in Nagole on October 5.

Tirupati: 
With the annual Tirumala Brahmotsavams scheduled to begin on October 4, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have urged the state government to swiftly appoint a "Specified Authority" to oversee the smooth conduct of the nine-day mega festival.
Addressing reporters here on Tuesday, BJP leader P.

Hyderabad
:Agriculture minister Tummala Nageswara Rao said the BJP leaders should be holding dharnas in Jantar Mantar seeking fulfillment of the 23 promises made by the Centre during the polls.

The government has not said that the loans of all the 42 lakh farmers have been waived and the process would be completed by the end of the year.

The Congress government spent `18,000 crore in 26 days and waived the loans of 22 lakh farmers.

Loans above `2 lakh will also be waived once the modalities are decided.” The state government, the minister said, paid Rs 7,656 crore Rythu Bandhu left unpaid by the previous BRS government.

The government has so far identified 3.5 lakh families who don’t have ration cards and they will receive waiver benefits soon, the minister said.

“The Centre owes us Rs 2,700 crore but only gave Rs 1,300 crore.

While the Centre gives Rs 6,000 per year for a family the state is giving Rs 5,000 per acre,” Nageswara Rao said.

In a release the minister informed that the increase in import duty on palm oil from 5.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent has resulted in the rate hike of Rs 17,043 per one lot of fruit.

This is an increase of Rs 2,651 per lot and will benefit 9,366 palm oil farmers by Rs 12 crores this month.

The state currently produces 2.80 lakh tonnes of oil with cultivation in 44,444 acres.

As of now, 14 companies have been given permissions for increasing the acreage of the crop which currently stands at 2.23 lakh acres,” the minister said.

Kamaraj (69) complained that his two daughters were held captive in the Isha Foundation.

The petitioner said the daughters, aged 42 and 39 years, who were well-educated, had been brainwashed to reside at the Isha Yoga Centre.

The judges said the court was exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and that it was necessary to get to the bottom of the case.

In the affidavit, the petitioner said his elder daughter had obtained her engineering degree in mechatronics in 2003 and completed her MTech degree from a popular university in the United Kingdom.

1 lakh per month in 2004.

She was married to a man in the United States but they were divorced in 2008.

The man said life had become hell for him and his 63-year-old wife since their daughters abandoned them.

Chennai: 
A massive stage is set with an elevation of eight feet and over 50,000 chairs have been laid out for the audience in the 40 acre empty land for the much-publicized women’s conference of the VCK to eradicate drugs and liquor, to be held from 3.00 pm on Wednesday at Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district.

He was addressing a large number of farmers at the concluding event of the 24-hour Rythu Deeksha programme at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park.

Asking Congress leaders to self-introspect before holding any press meet to criticise Rythu Deeksha, Rajendar urged them to force the government to waive farm loans up to Rs 2 lakh to all eligible farmers.

Arvind, directing his comments at Agriculture Minister Tummala Nageswara Rao, said the minimum support price (MSP) went up for several crops after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014.

Manasa, 34, and her daughter.

Manasa had married Laxmipathi Raju, 41, a private company employee in 2019.

This was her 11th arrest, police said.

Police seized 10 mobile phones from them.

She faces similar charges in 17 police stations.

Bhongir: 
District Principal and Sessions Judge Court on Monday sentenced two persons to life in prison for murder and a fine of Rs.65,000.

They were convicted of killing a person at Bommalaramaram and stealing money in 2019.

The inspector stated that the murder took place at about 10.30 am when no other person was present in the house.

18 Injured as Private Bus Overturns

Warangal
: A passenger sustained a hand fracture and 18 were hurt when a private travel bus overturned after its rear tyres burst on the Warangal-Hyderabad national highway on the outskirts of the Nidigonda of Yeshwantpur mandal.

Speaking highly of the DMK’s government’s efforts towards helping women, he said that in the last three years 1,25,760 SHGs had been formed with 14,91,985 members and assured to increase the loan amount to women in the coming years.

The Manimegalai Awards were presented to 70 women SHGs and federations that received a total prize money of Rs 1.18 crore, besides a certificate and the award.

The event also saw the release of loans links to the tune of Rs 30.20 crore to 6,135 members of 516 SHGs and the honouring of 13 bank branches for their exemplary service to SHGs.

On Monday, the project received a total of 74,000 cusecs of water, including 42,000 cusecs from the SRSP, with the remaining inflows coming from other catchments.

In response, irrigation authorities released 66,000 cusecs downstream by lifting 12 of the 62 gates.
The water level in the Yellampalli irrigation project reached 20.147 TMC ft, just shy of its full capacity of 20.175 TMC ft.

Premsagar Rao, water was released to save standing crops.
In the last two days alone, the project received 1.5 lakh cusecs of water.

Two days ago, 14 gates were lifted to discharge water downstream from the Yellampalli project, further ensuring a steady water supply for the region.

When BRS looted lakhs of crores of rupees in the name of Kaleshwaram project, the Congress is trying to loot Rs 1.5 lakh crore in the name of beautification of the Musi river, alleged Union minister of state for home affairs Bandi Sanjay Kumar speaking to the media here in Karimnagar on Monday.

“When there is no budget for giving salaries to the government employees, it is taking a Rs 1.5 lakh crore loan for the development of Musi riverfront.

This was her second attendance at a PGRS, following a similar meeting at the district headquarters on August 12.

Shyam Prasad mandated that all grievances be thoroughly investigated within 15 days to ensure timely resolutions.

The Greater Visakha Municipal Corporation (GVMC) headquarters received 102 petitions through the Public Problem Redressal System (PGRS), reflecting a surge in complaints.

Petition distribution by zones is as follows: 2 for the 1st zone, 18 for the 2nd zone, 22 for the 3rd zone, 7 for the 4th zone, 16 for the 5th zone, 16 for the 6th zone, 1 for the 7th zone, 7 for the 8th zone, and 13 for other zones.

These complaints cover various departments, including: GVMC Administration and Accounts (3), Revenue (11), Public Health (9), Town Planning (51), Engineering (20), Horticulture and Forestry (3) and UCD (5).

Speaking at a 24-hour-long 
Rythu Hameela Sadhana Deeksha
 at Dharna Chowk, Aruna demanded an all-party meeting on HYDRAA actions.

Maheshwar Reddy charged that Chief Minister Revanth Reddy had promised to spend `81,000 crore for farmers' welfare every year, waive farm loans of 70 lakh farmers by allocating `40,000 crore.

He spent only `17,000 crore on the loan waiver.

“The Congress… has ditched the farmers,” he said and alleged that about 1,000 farmers had died by committed suicide after Congress came to power.
Medak MP M.

Raghunandan Rao said the Congress government lost more credibility in its 10-month rule than the previous BRS government in 10 years.

The farmers have realised that Congress is a “420 Party”, he maintained.

“Revanth Reddy is carrying out demolitions to get commissions from builders and from the commissions of `1.5 lakh crore works on the Musi riverfront development to send the same to party high command,” he commented.
A large number of residents from the Musi river bed, in Satyanagar, Phanigiri Colony, Malakpet who were facing the risk of losing their houses for the Musi Riverfront Development Project, attended the meeting with a plea to come to their rescue.

Kakinada: 
The East Godavari district administration is gearing up to begin purchasing paddy from farmers during the Kharif season starting the first week of October, with harvesting expected to ramp up around October 10.

Reports indicate that the moisture content of the harvested paddy is around 25%, but rice millers are still purchasing it.

The district administration is also working to open 220 paddy purchasing centers by October 4.

While the state government has not specified the quantity of paddy it will procure, estimates suggest that the civil supplies department may buy around 2.30 lakh metric tonnes.

Madhava Rao noted that paddy is being cultivated across 70,000 hectares, with an expected yield of 4.42 lakh metric tonnes this Khariff season.

The most common varieties being cultivated include MTU 7029 (Swarna-30%), PL 1100 (B.Masuri-20%), MTU 1318 (an alternative to Swarna-18%), BPT (5%), and Sampada Srushti (13%), with satisfactory yields reported.

The department has 57.72 lakh gunny bags ready, which will be distributed to farmers through rice mills at no cost as harvesting begins.

A total of 137 rice mills have been identified for custom milling, allowing farmers to select the mill of their choice.

- The district administration plans to open 220 paddy purchasing centers by October 4 to facilitate the procurement process.

- Paddy is cultivated over 70,000 hectares, with an anticipated yield of 4.42 lakh metric tonnes this season.

Popular varieties include MTU 7029 and PL 1100.

- A total of 137 rice mills have been identified for custom milling, allowing farmers to select the mill of their choice.

- Authorities to distribute 57.72 lakh gunny bags to farmers through rice mills at no cost as harvesting begins.

Lakshmi, convener of the United Women's Associations, emphasised the need for a complete reconsideration of the alcohol policy initiated by the state government on October 1.

They appealed for a reassessment of the decision before October 15 and demanded the establishment of addiction centers.

Bengaluru:  
Considering that the  statement made by former Union Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA  Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that some leaders in his party have reserved Rs 1,000  crore to topple Congress led State Government a serious issue, Deputy Chief  Minister and president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) D.K.

Shivakumar on Monday said to register a complaint against BJP MLA Basanagouda  Patil Yatnal with authorities concerned over his statement.
 
At a press conference in Bengaluru, Shivakumar said  the statement made by Yatnal having his close BJP MLAs around in Davangere on  Sunday, has been a big shock to the nation that some leaders of his party have  reserved Rs 1,000 crore dreaming of becoming Chief Minister.

On Sunday, in an interview to a Kannada news  channel, Yatnal stated those in the destiny to be Chief Minister will ascend  the post of Chief Minister but some leaders in his party aspiring to ascend the  post of Chief Minister have reserved Rs 1,000 crore with an intention to topple  the Congress led State Government.

“No poaching of MLAs,” he asserted and stated the  (pathetic) situation BJP is in at the moment is owing to 17 MLAs (15 Congress  and 2 JDS) joining BJP in 2019.

Yatnal referred to 17 MLAs joining BJP which led to  the collapse of JDS-Congress coalition government and BJP formed the State  Government.

Hyderabad:
Leaders of around 40 farmers’ organisations from the five southern states resolved to oppose the entry of genetically-modified (GM) crops.

The Chief Minister was speaking at the flagging off the Pink Power Run-2024 at the Gachibowli stadium.

Vijayawada:
 A 23-year-old mother and her two children died by suicide at Bandar Canal near the Screw Bridge area on Sunday .

Rajashyamala Yagam at Shanti Ashram from October 3

Scheduled from October 3 to 12, the Yagam will be conducted under the divine blessings of Sri Himalaya Guruji, coinciding with the Navaratri festival.

In a statement released on Sunday, Guruji shared that the Maha Yagam will commence on October 3 and will run daily for 12 hours until October 12.

Dasara festivities at Jogulamba temple from October 3

Kurnool: 
The Devi Sharannavaratri Brahmotsavam will take place from October 3 to 12 at the Shakti Petham Alampuram Jogulamba Ammavari Temple, commencing with the worship of the Goddess on the first day of autumn and culminating on Dashami.

During the festival, Goddess Jogulamba will be adorned and venerated in various forms, including Sailaputri on Day 1, Brahmacharini on Day 2, Chandraghanta on Day 3, Kushmanda on Day 4, Skandha Matha on Day 5, Katyayani on Day 6, Kalaratri on Day 7, Mahagowri on Day 8, and Siddhidhatri on Day 9.

Hyderabad:
 The Indira Mahila Shakthi canteen and event management training programme, which trained 58 women, concluded on Saturday.

They have been staying in the city for the last 15 years and working as wall painters, sources said.
The accused, reportedly in the custody of the CI cell police, were giving contradictory statements.

